hey everyone it's so great to be here
first of all huge thank you to jason
lemkin and the entire sasser crew
for bringing us all together in person
this is really wonderful i'm kathy gau a
partner at sapphire ventures we are a
venture capital firm we love b2b sas
and we invest in companies at the series
a
all the way to pre-ipo
we're here today to talk about a really
exciting and interesting topic which is
how to scale
your startup from 20 million of ar to a
hundred
i think this will be helpful to our
panelists so
show of hands really quickly
how many people in the audience are
founders raise your hand please wow okay
we have a good number
awesome
and how many people in the audience are
focused on go to market sales marketing
oh wow
okay keep your hands up if your sales
i see you guys okay and then marketing
kind of an even split
which is cool
well i'm joined today by an amazing
panel we have two
very very seasoned operators who've done
this before and are
thrilled to share their wisdom with you
as well as my co-moderator
growth investor partner at lightspeed
and i think we've been friends for 10
years or something like that anushka
but maybe i'll have my panelists all
introduce themselves tell them a little
bit tell you guys a little bit about
their companies and just for fun
tell us when you were a kid
what did you want to be when you grew up
carlos i'll start with you
okay thank you
and by the way by seasoned i think you
meant old thank you very much
um so i'm cro at a company called trip
actions and we are modernizing uh
corporate travel and expense management
and uh and and doing well i'm happy to
talk more about it if it's relevant and
previously i was a cro of
mongodb uh through the journey that sort
of coincides with the topic today uh
grew up in miami and um have lived in uh
europe and uh new york and san francisco
and what did i want to be when i grew up
well at different stages different
things but
i uh i convinced uh my parents to buy me
a horse at one time and i was really
into that and so i thought i was going
to be a cowboy and uh
as an adult i learned how much money
cowboys make and uh here i am
hi everyone i am latini conan chief
market officer at sixth sense
and sixth sense we are the leading
account engagement platform
and what that means is we actually power
b2b revenue teams we provide insights
into something that we call the dark
funnel this is all the people that are
in market for what you do but you have
no idea so we uncover that dark funnel
so that you know who's in market for
what you do and then we help your sales
and marketing teams go
and proactively engage with the accounts
most likely to buy so that's a little
bit about us
i wanted to be a heart surgeon
and i got to college and i had to take
chemistry duh
and i am a huge klutz
and i was a disaster in chemistry lab i
had the highest bill of broken beakers
and petri dishes and after that i
decided
maybe i should major in accounting and
be a cpa so that's what i did for a
little bit
nice hi everyone pleasure to be here
today with all of you i'm a partner at
lightspeed venturers on our enterprise
side
we've been lucky to work with a number
of incredible companies including carda
rubric nutanix and trip action so it's a
pleasure to have carlos with me today
i've been in enterprise investing for
over four years now and what i wanted to
be when i grew up was a veterinarian
which is you know bears absolutely no
resemblance to my day-to-day
um
which seems to be a common theme among
this panel
awesome so we wanted to really cover two
major topics in today's discussion one
is all about go to market execution
right this is a big topic that is very
important no matter what stage a company
you're really in and then the second is
all about talent and culture how do you
think about that as you're scaling
companies
to adapt and expand to your growing
enterprise
so i'll start first and then hand it
over to anushka to talk about talent
culture
but for go to market playbook you know
for this stage 20 to 100 it can be
pretty tricky
because certain strategies that may have
worked
before in the past
might now need changes or major
adjustments
i know all of you guys are here very
curious to hear
what carlos and latini have seen at
their respective companies so let me
jump in and maybe i'll start with
latinee first take us back to 2018 when
you started at six cents and then fast
forward to now what were some of the
biggest changes that you had to adapt to
as cmo
yeah it's so funny in preparing for this
panel i called our cfo and i went to the
wayback machine and i was like okay what
when exactly were we and then i'm like
what was i doing and what was i
struggling with to kind of
recreate history um and i would say you
know
sub 20 million i call beast mode
everybody does everything and you're
looking for swiss army knifes and it's a
little bit like swarm ball right you
guys seen kids play soccer
everybody's running at the ball
everyone's trying to get something done
but you may or may not be really making
plays
when you get to 20 you need to start
really building a team with dedicated
specialists um and so that that was kind
of a big aha and and i think that's
important to think about is you don't
want to be playing peewee soccer and you
don't want every day to be an act of
heroics long term
but when i went back in the way back
machine there are sort of three
i think big things that uh collectively
mark who's our head of sales and and and
i
did right maybe we lucked into it i
don't know
the first thing that we did is we really
really defined what i call is our
revenue operating model
and we hired rev-ops
we didn't hire marketing ops we didn't
hire sales ops because one of the most
embarrassing moments of my career is me
standing up with my revenue model that
marketing ops put together and my head
of sales standing up with his and they
weren't exactly the same that doesn't
work
so we hired rev-ops and we created this
revenue operating model it works
backward into pipeline quotas so i have
pipeline quotas how much needs to get
created
every week every month every quarter
across the business
we track our our sales velocity formula
which is win rates asps and cycle times
critical critical
and we look at net retention and we are
always finding the red and working
together across those key metrics
by go to market segment and and we have
a steward of that with one team that
that owns that for all of us so that was
a huge
huge um i think thing that we did right
the second thing
is we
we built an outbound motion that really
really
works
and i think when you get to a certain
point you need to be out capturing
demand very very efficiently and
effectively
and it's very easy to dump a lot of
money into a non-efficient outbound
motion
and the reason i say this is one of the
things that i did is i was a bdr for a
day if i go back into the wayback
machine we had a lot of bdrs working
really hard
really inconsistent results
and i'm like what the hell is going on
we're hiring these great people we got a
career path they're going to be the
future of our sales team
what is going on well they waste a
colossal amount of time is the reality
and that's on us as leaders
and so really setting your bdrs to be
laser focused on behavioral based signal
the ideal customer profile
and having a lot of rigor and process
around that and then
you know the kicker is making sure that
they can graduate into being aes
so that has made us really really
successful is just investing in that
function and doing it right
and then the third thing is
we never thought small
no matter how big you are
if you're 20 million think you're
100 million if you're 100 million act
and think like you're 300 million
never ever think small
and so we did a lot of things that
most people were would think were
audacious and bold and
and wild but
we did them to really break out of the
noise and so it's better to do a few
things that seem a little bit crazy that
are really really bold
than do a bunch of play it safe things
and i think we did those three things
right
thank you by the way
rev ups i feel like it's a new kind of
category back when i was working at
gusto
in 2015
we didn't have revops and now i you know
was that sasser yesterday so many ceos i
spoke with they said oh revops is one of
our buyer personas so it does seem like
a big shift carlos what about you i mean
you were at mongodb during a very
critical time and now you're at the helm
leading go to market at trip actions any
insights you can share on how those
organizations changed as they scaled
sure um
i think getting to 20
or to 10 and then to 20 is hard for a
whole bunch of reasons that have a lot
to do
with being in the right market and
having the right product and having the
right demo in the right use case and uh
and all of that and i have strong
opinions on uh plg which maybe we'll
talk about later but um
getting from 20 to 100
you don't get there
with
uh you don't get there with a great
product alone or a sexy demo or the
ability to go do some big deals you need
a machine and you need repeatability and
that is based on having a strong
foundation
and from a sales perspective
i think that foundation has sort of
three pillars um the first is recruiting
you've got to have
crystal clarity
on what's the profile of the ae that's
going to be successful here
how do we identify that profile what do
they look like on on linkedin before we
waste time you know assessing them then
how do we quickly assess them and lastly
how do we uh how do we keep the the
great talent that we have i think i
missed attract so identify attract
assess and retain are the sort of the
sub disciplines under uh recruiting and
you've got to really get that right and
invest in it as a thing that needs to be
a core competency the second is
development and by that i mean skill
development
so the enablement has to be kick-ass you
don't disrupt a market by hiring the the
people from the legacy vendors and
hoping they'll figure it out you need
fresh thinking and so really what that
means is you hire sales athletes
exceptional sales talent that probably
doesn't know anything about your market
so at mongodb the sales team um oracle
people did really poorly for the most
part we hired uh we hired sales people
hopefully no one is from oracle here
sorry
yeah yeah
it's just the truth um
and and that trip actions concur people
and and amex people do poorly uh so you
disrupt it you disrupt the market by
bringing in really strong sales talent
sales athletes and then just giving them
amazing training and and that's you know
the the corporate enablement sales
enablement product enablement but then
you know strong coaching and just really
being thoughtful about that learning
journey from i'm aggressive and i'm
talented in sales but i don't know
anything about databases or travel and
expense management so that's sort of the
second pillar you got to get that right
and then the third pillar is execution
which is sort of a catch-all for
everything else it's the least important
of it's important but it's the least
important of the three because if you
have amazing talent and kick-ass
training
you could kind of like get out of their
way and they'll probably do well it's
even better if you have like a strong uh
framework for execution and i'd say the
sub disciplines in the execution pillar
are going to be pipeline generation and
lottany talked about the outbound motion
i think she was referring to bdrs i'm a
proponent a strong proponent of having
aes also responsible for outbound
pipeline generation um
if it's interesting i can talk later
about why
the second is champion building so
within sales there has to be a real
methodology around how we identify a
potential champion how we discover their
pain how we turn them develop them into
a real champion test them use them etc
and then the third one is qualification
so that the sales team has a methodology
that enables them to identify the
opportunities that are worth pursuing
and if so what are the issues that are
worth solving but importantly identify
the opportunities that are not worth
pursuing so that they don't squander uh
their time so you don't get from 20 to
100 in my opinion or in my experience
without having some maturity around
those three pillars the people the
development and the execution
makes a lot of sense and i want to pull
on a thread that carlos brought up which
is plg right that seems to be
the acronym du jour i think there was a
panel on monday about plg and i've heard
multiple people talk about plg and their
panels over the past couple of days
maybe i'll start with carlos
share with our group
what your take is on all this hoopla
around these three letters today and if
there's any plg elements that are that
currently exist at trip actions
so
i'll get to the second part in a second
but i was thinking about this i knew
this would come up given this audience
and this event well given the prep call
and the prep call and i've heard that
there's been several uh sessions on plg
and
david sachs who i think highly of
presented yesterday so i know plg is a
thing i was thinking about it and i
think
i'm speaking now to the founders if your
investors and your mentors are telling
you go do plg go be plg
i feel like that's right but not
particularly useful it's like telling
your kids go be great at school well
yeah of course i'm gonna do better in
life if i'm great at school but
maybe i'm not smart enough maybe i'm
dyslexic maybe i don't go to a good
school and even if i do get straight a's
that doesn't ensure that i'm gonna
there's so much more to it so plg you
know having a product that has this
crazy hook that goes viral this like
amazing demo that makes people want to
buy it's amazing if you have it enjoy it
mongodb had it you know you could
download this database uh the community
the free version and the first 30
minutes were incredible and then our
sales people ran around and and and
found those people and monetized it and
so that was great and at trip actions
it's great you know people who have used
concur or agency or something else and
they see trip actions they're like holy
it looks like instagram but it does
all this you know it handles all this
complexity that i need to handle to get
from point a to point b or they see our
expense tool and they're like wait a
minute i don't have to keep a you know a
box full of receipts i don't have to do
ever expense reports so it is great to
have the hook
but you don't get from 20 to 100 on plg
um because
you know to get from 20 to 100 you're
probably doing bigger deals and you're
doing bigger deals at bigger companies
and so plg makes for a great meeting and
um
you know i think in 100 if you're
selling to a 100 person company
especially a tech company where they're
really smart and they connect the dots
quickly sure a great demo a great use
case will do it
if you're trying to scale you're going
to be selling to companies where there
are lots of people involved in the
decision some of the people involved in
the decision will never even see the
product and so you need to have a sales
team that can
discover pain and build real value and
can do
top-down in conjunction with bottom-up
and so that's what we did at mongodb and
that was critical to um to going you
know from 20 to 100 and then 200 and
same at trip actions it's been the it's
been the key to going up market we've
quadrupled the number of fortune 500
customers we have during covid and and
that just doesn't happen
it happens bottom up but over 20 years
and your investors aren't that patient
so i i was chuckling a little bit
because as a vc i'm sure anushka i can
understand too we're definitely guilty
of saying try plg like the magic bullet
to help good grades get a 4.0 be smart
fair enough latin any thoughts on that
so i obsess over experience
i think that's a huge part of of being a
cmo and a go-to-market leader and it's
not just the product experience it's
everything experience right how a
salesperson shows up to a meeting
how someone interacts on your website
uh and to me
bringing forward a product experience
is a really smart thing to do
like if you've got a cool pro but but
it's not to me
and that's a good demand signal
i i think that there's like this purest
notion of of plg that i guess maybe i i
reject the purist that it's you put your
product out there everyone you know they
upsell themselves you don't even have
sales reps if if you can do it god bless
i just i haven't seen that play out in
in my real life and my adult life
but i love the notion of bringing a
product experience forward and you know
i am part of a cmo community and one of
the most brilliant cmos is someone named
kevin marasco
and he
he brought it home to me
he calls it a snack
and i'm like that's brilliant everyone
loves snacks
and it doesn't have to be a free try i
think the other thing is like everyone's
like it has to be a free trial it has to
be a free trial it can just be a product
snack
because your buying team is very diverse
and there's going to be people on your
buying team that want to get in and see
the snack and test that it works
but you're right the executive on your
buying team is never going to snack out
they're just not they might have a drink
i don't know but but so i i feel like
that's a very realistic way to approach
it and we've seen that work tremendously
by bringing aspects of our
our product forward and then the other
thing that i think is really important
about adopting plg in your demand motion
is
before we would as marketers put out
content
and that was a hook
right
people would sign up for our content or
exchange their email for content that
just doesn't work anymore
no one is filling out your forms for
your content
and so you have to have something richer
and more interesting
to engage folks and i think having some
sort of you know
experience or calculator
or something more meaty is a really
important part of a go to market modern
go to market motion today
and the last topic i want to cover on go
to market execution i think will be kind
of a fun one because we have half sales
folks in the audience and half marketers
in the audience you know latino
representing the marketers and carlos
representing the sales oftentimes
there's some friction some conflict
between marketing and sales
especially as companies scale
so
talk to us a little bit about what
potential frictions you've seen in your
career either carlos or latini
well i i'm cheating a little bit because
i'm a recovering software salesperson
who's now in in marketing um
but i think there's there's two
i'm going to approach this from two
angles
i think marketers
need to understand that the only asset
that carlos and his team have is their
time
and they have to choose every single
second of every single day wisely
not just if they want to make their
number if they want to have a job
and
so i i think about
marketing led sales meaning how do i put
how do i think about my sales team as
the most precious
the most expensive channel
just like i wouldn't go and send
champagne to everybody who came to my
website
why would i expect carlos to follow up
and call
everyone who came to my website if
that's not a good demand signal there
are other ways to follow up so my job is
to separate
the most winnable demand signals
the most winnable and and obsess over
that sales velocity model so that i can
put carlos and his team in a position to
win and i think that if more
marketing folks thought that way
it would help ease a lot of the friction
and a lot of the passing mqls
to sales so that's that side of it
the other side of it though and my my uh
i guess ask of someone like carlos
is
when you create your plan
the worst thing that you can do to me
is go off you do your quota builds with
finance
you come up with some territories
and you do not involve me
and then i am stuck trying to feed all
of these aes that there's no market-led
lens on how these territories were
created how were these accounts selected
why are we going after this is this an
ideal customer profile it you know and
and i think that and and so the more i
think sales and marketing can work
together to triangulate on a plan
that isn't just quota builds isn't just
what you did this last year times it by
xyz it's really market driven where are
we going in the market how many accounts
look like that
how many are winnable
the better shape we are all in at the
end of the day so that's my ask of cross
great
um
i think there's as you were talking
about it i think there's maybe a meta
point which is
high functioning exec teams
are
highly empathetic of each other and more
so than they are of their own
group meaning as cro if i'm part of a
high functioning team i have a stronger
relationship with the cfo and the head
of product and the head of marketing
that i do with my team and i understand
their challenges and if you have that
i've been
in organizations where sales and
marketing couldn't stand each other and
i've had the good fortune
for two companies in a row now i've
worked with um megan eisenberg who's a
fabulous cmo at um both mongodb and and
now at trip actions and we're completely
aligned she doesn't care
really whether in a given month we hit
our
you know meeting conversion metrics or
not she cares did we make the number and
um and so we are completely aligned to
what the company cares about versus what
each team cares about and i think i
think that's really the the core of when
when there's tension marketing is
looking for a metric and sales is
um
externalizing the responsibility for
pipeline and so i mentioned earlier ae's
doing outbound pipeline generation
themselves at at trip actions and at
mongodb uh tuesdays are special pg
tuesdays so there's this entire cadence
where aes select focus accounts on
thursdays they do prep over the weekend
they present their prep on mondays
tuesdays are sacred no meetings it's all
outbound prep and we do pg wrap-ups on
fridays when you have aes feeling that
it's their responsibility to generate
pipeline
now number one there's more pipeline
that's great but number two whatever
pipeline they get from their sdrs or
inbound from marketing is a gift from
the heavens and they and they treat it
with the respect that it merits versus
uh that leads not good enough they get
like you know morris the cat get all
finicky so i think uh that's what i
think one of i worked for a a ceo at
imperial chris barbin and
we were having some dysfunctions across
the team and it was funny he sat us all
down
i'll never forget this
and he said this is your first team
end of story like this is your first
team
and you're not the marketing team you're
not the head of the marketing team
like you're not the head of the product
team and you're not this you know the
head of the finance team you guys are
all first team
and
to me that i i don't know i'll never
forget it and it it's created a real aha
and a shift in mindset that i love what
you were saying i think you have to
think about your executive peers as your
first team
so we talked a lot about go to market
execution which is no doubt a super core
component of scaling your business
but just as important maybe even more
important is the talent
the talent around your organization so
let me pass it over to anushka to ask
some questions on talent and culture
you know maybe just to kick it off
carlos and latini you've been part of
organizations that have not just scaled
but scaled incredibly quickly
how have you guys thought about
maintaining culture
during this period of rapid growth maybe
latino kicking it off with you
so i learned i learned a lot about
building great culture at imperio
because it was a it was a professional
services firm our people were our
product
end of story and so
i think having that mentality even
though you're a product company because
people
make products
and so one of the things that i have
embraced is something that i call the
fun factor
so i think work should be fun
i don't think it should be a grind i
think that if you believe in what you're
doing and you think it's cool and you're
working with cool people and you're
changing the world
that's fun
and it's not about foosball or snacks
even except product snacks because i
talked about those and they're cool but
um
and and so i asked people what is your
fun factor
and now we do a poll
every all hands meeting we do a pulse
pull of the team out of the last 10
working days how many days were fun
and our goal as a company is that 8 out
of 10 working days
are fun you're inspired you like who
you're working with and we say if you're
not like let's talk about it
and if you can't talk to your manager
call me
um
and and that's what we've we've striven
for and that's really worked well for us
to to embrace the mentality of it's okay
you should be enjoying this and if
you're not let's talk about it
i like that we can call it net fund
score
nfs yeah
carlos would love your thoughts
so um i think
on the topic of talent and culture i'll
maybe talk about those separately but um
with talent i i think um it is it is as
i mentioned before really important to
uh get to crystallize who do we want and
and that changes obviously per role but
as you're as you're scaling a sales
organization you know the the things
that that i've thought about and have
found to be you know super impactful is
let's just talk about the the quota
carrying sales rep sort of the core uh
unit of production in the sales
organization we have intangibles and we
have tangibles and so the intangibles
are
intelligence they've got to be smart
enough to connect the dots put the value
prop in front of the customer or do
discovery et cetera they've got to have
drive or grit
which is really a a combination of they
want to win really badly and importantly
they're willing to persevere through the
obstacles to get there so the
combination is what i call drive
coachability they're not set in their
ways um but they're not so coachable
that the customer is going to push them
around so coachability is like there's
an ideal range and then values they're
honest we can trust them we can uh we
can
feel confident that they're representing
the company appropriately so those are
the intangibles we want as much of those
as possible especially drive drives the
one that's most linearly correlated with
results intelligence is more of a
threshold value if they're smart enough
they're smart enough and sure more is
better but really it's drive that that
scales um and then in terms of the
intangibles it's uh it's pipeline gender
as i mentioned it's pipeline generation
champion building and qualification and
so if you get your profile right and you
know
what um companies are likely to have
that profile and you sort of go after
people that have that profile then what
you end up building is a team with high
talent density
and then so that's so that's one element
you i don't think you can have a great
culture if you don't have highly
talented people and talent define the
way um the way that makes sense for the
role
and then in terms of of culture um
i think you know one of the things that
i i have found to be super uh impactful
is having lots of
two-way
uh or
peer-to-peer communication so it's been
really hard during covid with everyone
over zoom but
having quarterly business reviews qbrs
is critical every you know every level
in the organization has a qbr where they
come in and they say hey this we're
going to do some training the the leader
is going to identify here's some things
we need to get better at we'll spend
some time on it but then every single
person gets up and presents this is what
i accomplished in the last 90 days this
is what you can expect from me in the
next 90 days this is what i need from
the organization these are my challenges
these are my these are my tailwinds and
having that
sort of moment in time where we get
everything on the table if you have a
talented team with open communication
that can be a really important uh event
to promote culture
so just just to pile on to that moment
in time because many of you i would
assume are preparing for next year and
maybe even have started planning your
sales or field kickoff
and one of
the biggest mistakes that i see is like
people don't take it seriously
and
to me
field kickoff and invite your entire go
to market team not just sales entire go
to market team is one of the most
important weeks of the year and you
should do a mid-year
and it should be
amazing as good as a customer-focused
event the content should be reviewed you
should have stingers it should be high
energy
that meeting
sets the tone for the entire year
and i say never waste a deadline so if
you need to get your strategy done get
it done if you need a new pitch done if
you need a new cert done you need the
website updated
like
that is show time
and such a critical event it's not just
a meeting and a bad hilton ballroom like
make it really impactful for people
so
somewhat tactical but i found to be
tremendously important i agree
completely and um just one thing i'll
add to that one thing i've seen work
well you can only do it
up to a certain size is actually have
the entire company at day one you know
day one is typically all about inspiring
and uh and that benefits the entire
company and uh typically days two and
three are more about education but that
day one if you can get the whole company
there do it right and then get the whole
company there pays dividends yeah
one question you know we've been having
a lot of discussions with ceos on and
you know some of you might be
experiencing on your teams is this
feeling of burnout um and there being
kind of a great resignation where a lot
of people are you know opting to leave
companies
how have you guys combated burn out
and maintain morale on your teams
i think if carlos and i had the answer
to that we would be like doing a ted
talk right now um because there's
there's no answer i i mean i think every
single one of us are dealing with this
we talk about it every week in our
executive team meeting it's it's it's
very real and i think for some of us gen
xers like it's a head scratcher because
we're just used to grinding right
um
but
and so the way that
we've approached it and and the way that
i have approached it with with my team
is my father-in-law has a saying that
everyone's going through something all
the time
and this is challenging for us because
we want rules we want to say well if
you know what if people are just working
too hard and if we just give everyone
friday off this will go away and we
won't have to deal with it right well
maybe that makes it more stressful
because they don't want to be at home
because there's some situation going on
there and so
that's the challenging nature of it is
you really have to look at
what is going on with that person and
and try to make accommodations at the
individual level which i think as
organizations especially scaling
organization that want rules and want
categories
this is not fitting into that
and and so i we just have to maintain
flexibility and i think we talk about it
every week
and and it just has to be a topic and a
number one priority
yeah i'll piggyback on uh i'll second
the thought that i the the notion that i
don't know the answer um but um
i've definitely made some mistakes
during covid at the beginning of kovid
um you know we were only it's only going
to be two weeks so how do we maintain
productivity during these two weeks of
of working at home well i know we're
gonna have two stand-ups a day 7 45 to 8
30 and another one at the end of the day
keep everyone
about six days into it people are like
uh we have nothing to talk about and
we're meeting twice a day this is k and
so uh i discovered zoom fatigue before
before it was a term but so i did that
so don't do that and hopefully no one is
but um you know i think people are most
engaged when they're growing and
learning and and and winning feel like
they're winning and so one of the things
that we had to do at trip actions is
adjust what is the definition of success
in this environment and um and and have
we introduced new metrics into the sales
team that were real but that were also
achievable in this environment and so if
people feel like they're winning that's
a lot
and and really getting more creative
around how to deliver that enablement so
that they feel when they put their head
on the pillow i'm better today than i
was yesterday or a week ago if people
feel like they're winning and they feel
like they're growing that goes a long
way i will also say that
covet has had
you know
has provoked existential crises for a
lot of us and many people have decided
hey this is not for me whether they were
a server in manhattan or an sdr in palo
alto and and i think that's okay and
some people have decided to to go change
careers and what that means is that
there's pressure on the leadership to
really always be recruiting that the
right the right caliber so i don't
believe in like coercing people to stay
it has caused people to re-examine their
careers and their lives and and that's
okay
so one of the things that i
we talk about weekly at at the executive
team level but also on every single team
is
recruiting everybody recruits and when
you're trying to double every single
year
the only thing standing in your way is
is hiring great people like that's it
and
what i think a lot of functions outside
of sales don't understand is that if you
don't hire to plan like that's a
fireable offense like when you're a
sales leader if you don't hire a plan
you you can get fired for that but when
you go outside of sales they'll like
they're like oh well oh yeah that
interview like they and so i
injecting a mindset of
no no
hiring is your number one priority and
so on my team meetings now the first
thing we talk about is who's your open
hiring pipeline why are you getting
behind on your hires
and and it's
people are like drowning and they don't
understand i'm like i'm giving you
budget here's a lifeboat you've got us
one stroke to get in
and so i think that's a really important
thing to think about outside of just
sales because it's more commonly
accepted in sales but looking across all
your teams
let me piggyback on that i think there's
a um
there's a dangerous dynamic that exists
sometimes which is recruiting is the
recruiting team's problem it's my job to
like interview and qualify but it's
their job i don't have any candidates
well have you gone on linkedin like have
that's right have you asked your network
are you this is your problem not theirs
it's the analog it's uh
leader recruiting is the analog to aepg
it's their responsibility and anything
the talent team does is is gravy on top
and so i think that's a really healthy
sort of uh way to operate
on the topic of recruiting i know one
thing you know many individuals on
various teams struggle with founders
struggle with is how do you think about
the decision to externally hire versus
promote from intern and you know would
be curious for both of you
how you've thought about that decision
on your teams
carlos yeah sure um
i think it's it's it's just a uh it's a
mathematical equation um so
first principle is promote if possible
it's healthy for the organization they
already we know who they are um
and so if
and so really the only reason not to
promote from within is if we look at the
individual and we say okay for the new
job that they would be in the skill gap
between what they have today and what
they need to be high functioning in that
new role
is greater than what they can fill in
the time that we can wait so in a high
growth company it will happen that there
are amazing people whose career is doing
this but the company's doing this and so
they do need to get layered and you need
to bring leaders from the outside but
it's only if there aren't people inside
that we believe can can close the skill
gap in a in a reasonable period of time
i think also
thinking of lateral moves like like
sometimes you have someone who isn't
ready now or you don't have a role but
gosh if they got experience as a
customer success leader
when they came back how much like richer
and and more educated and more
experienced would they have
so
i think about it more as i go back to my
father-in-law everyone's going through
something all the time so looking at the
individual and saying where do you want
to be where can you be
and how do we get you the most rich
experience here
to get you where you want to be and
always ask people where they want to be
two or three jobs from now because a lot
of times
they only see one move and we need to be
helping them make that second or third
move
and i think that helps
you fill in gaps organizationally retain
people
and then you can then you see where you
don't have uh chess pieces and that's
when you hire
and you know maybe as we're kind of
wrapping up
you know latin carlos you've both been
at organizations that have gone from you
know zero to over a hundred uh which is
pretty remarkable
any summary or final thoughts for the
audience slatney
giddy up
[Laughter]
i love it giddy up um
yeah i mean i think
you have to always be learning and
growing and challenging yourself like
the second you feel like you know it all
like i hate being here actually because
i'm like i don't i don't i don't know
i'm learning i'm growing and so i think
the second that you
stop doing that as as a leadership team
is a very very dangerous place to be
um and then the other thing is you know
100 million i'm thinking 300 million
right so you again back to being bigger
thinking bigger always be thinking much
bigger than you are today
i guess i agree with all that um i think
slope matters more than scale and so
when you're hiring thinking oh i want to
get to 100 million i need someone who
has overseen
100 million well if they oversaw
something that went from 80 to 120
they might not be very good at building
and so someone who went from 10 to 40 is
likely a lot better than someone that
went from 80 to 100 and so it's the
slope yeah exactly so the slope of the
curve that they oversaw matters more
than the scale of the team that they
that they oversaw
[Music]
you